Hey friends. I want to
introduce a new sponsor to
you. H M a VPN.
It's a VPN you can
count on. As you know,
I do a lot of
travel and I tend to
connect to a lot of
untrusted wireless networks. And I
probably shouldn't, but I can
use HMA as the world's
largest VPN service offers. The
most server locations worldwide covers
190 countries. There's always a
server nearby it. Doesn't log
your IP address and allows
me to connect five devices
simultaneously works on basically all
platforms, Android, iOS, Mac, Linux,
windows routers, wherever it's actually
been completely redesigned recently to
make it even simpler and
more fun to use. And
there's even a smart kill
switch. That'll turn the VPN
automatically on when you launch
sensitive apps, here's your call
to action. My friends try
HMA VPN risk-free with a
30 day money back guarantee.
This deal is for Hanselman
its listeners. That's HMA, vpn.com/offer
hyphen Hansel minutes. That's HMA
vpn.com/offer-hansel minutes. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
one Sort of Hansel minutes
today. I'm talking with Freya
holler. She makes amazing math
visualizations that are all over
Twitter. And is you do
Twitch streaming. I've seen also
math for game day of
you're like a four hour
improvised live course. You just
live in an eat and
sleep math and game dev.
It's so amazing. Thank you
for coming on the show.
Thank you so much for
having me, you know, how
you bump into somebody on
Twitter and you're like, Oh,
this seems like a nice
thing. And then you start
scrolling and he starts scrolling
and it's like, Oh my
goodness. Oh my goodness. And
then you just infinitely scroll
through the media part of
their Twitter. You're like, what
is going on? How did
I not know this person
existed? That's how I felt
when I started scrolling through
your Twitter, because you have
all of these really cool
visualizations that explain really complicated
math problems in a way
that I had never seen
before. The only person that
does this, or is there
math, visualization, Twitter? I, I
don't know if there's a
community for it on Twitter,
but I mean, there are
some things that I've seen.
There's a YouTube YouTube for
your call, three blue, one
Brown who does like really
cool math visualizations. He goes
very in depth on stuff,
but he visualizes it in
a very intuitive and nice
way. So I think that
was probably one of my
inspirations for doing like math
visualizations. But I think the,
the primary motivator for me
was just that when making
gains, there are so many
complex systems that interact and
a lot of them are
like mathematical or geometrical. One
of the ways to debug
that, to find out whether
something wrong or not Is
the visualize it. And I
found that sharing those visualizations
with people, or just showing
that it resonates with people
somehow just seeing the underlying
data, seeing the underlying patterns
that emerge sort of, and
I think there's a strong
appreciation for that. What do
people use to make these
animations and do you know,
off the top of your
head when that started? Because
the first visualizations I ever
made would be 20 or
30 years ago and visualization,
when I say visualization, I
don't just mean a graph.
I mean, over time, the
first ones I ever made
would be like on a
TBI 83 or 89 calculator,
very one frame, every five
seconds type visualizations. But you
know, when did math animation
really start blowing up? I
don't know. Really. I remember
that there was one math
animation that was making his
rounds for on Twitter that
look really old. It looked
like it was made like
through some oscilloscope or something.
So I guess it's been
around for a long time,
but it doesn't seem to
have been like very well
established. Like you're not gonna
open a math textbook and
see animations. Right. But it
seems to be pretty obscure
at this point, which is
kind of why I wanted
to make more of it.
Cause it seems to resonate
with people. Like I just
made this very simple animation
showing the signing co-sign relationship
with a unit circle, very
simple animation, you know, a
vector's spinning in a circle
and then showing how sign
and cosign, you know, how
those functions relate to that
vector. And that, that tweet
just like blew up and
everybody was like, Oh, why
weren't you not, where were
you? Not my teacher in
high school or whatever. And
that seemed to be like,
it was not just one
person that seemed to be
like ubiquitous in all of
the replies. And so I
thought that, you know, okay,
so given how, how much
traction this got given how
much people seem to learn
just by me playing around
with like vectors. Like, it
seems like there's a space
where I could make educational
content. That looks pretty. And
I think that really resonates
with people because too many,
I think math is just
very boring and daunting. And
I think that's partially because
it's presented in a very
boring way. Mm. I feel
also as I have a
12 year old and a
14 year old, and as
I try to get them
at, you know, ideally of
course excited by math, but
worst case scenario not deeply
offended by math, right? Like
there's a low bar when
you're trying to teach children
math here, like not hating,
it would be success. The
biggest thing that they're having
trouble with is visualizing things
over time, because math is
such a dynamic thing. It's
the continuum that they can't
see. So why are we
giving them black and white
textbooks and saying, here's, you
know, graph X graph, Y
do that. And now visualize
it over time. It's ask,
that's a big jump to
ask someone to do. It
really is. And I think
there is something like that
jump I think is very
under, like, not under appreciated.
I don't know the word
for it, but like showing
a graph of something like
a trajectory and you have
time on some access like
that, like conceptualizing that is
pretty difficult. Cause you have
this layer of abstraction where
you've like mapped out time
over an axis, which is
kind of weird. Like that's,
it's probably difficult to get
a grasp of that unless
you like intuitively know these
things very well. So I
think making that connection takes
time, but being able to
show an animation next to
that and then showing the
line, the moves with time
that immediately you can see
that, Oh, this is connected
to time. This is not
a spatial dimension or whatever.
That's a really interesting point,
right? Like we have all
this three dimensional stuff that
we try to present to
people on two dimensional medium,
and time is a fourth
dimension. And we still try
to show that to people
in two dimensions and it's
like, Oh, well we can't
make it move. So let's
put it on an axis
and let them what animated
in their heads. Yeah, exactly.
And I mean, there's still
use of having it on
an axis. It's just that
it's not the best way
to introduce something to people.
So these are gorgeous and
they feel very, they are,
they are reliably the same
kind of style and font
almost as if there's like
a Microsoft word or a
Microsoft Excel of math animations.
Are you using Mathematica or
is this a thing of
your own creation? It's kind
of my own thing. It's,
it's a long story. So
if I had any development,
that would be amazing. You
could tell them. So my
background has been very strongly
in like knee deep in
game development for a very,
very long time. So that's
sort of been my approach
to everything I make. And,
you know, I would, I
would always say that or
I w I always considered
games to sort of be
probably one of the most,
or if not the most
advanced, you know, media forum
we have today, it incorporates
so much from like, you
know, from radio, from movies,
from theater, from even arcade
games or playing physically with
people or whatever. Like it
incorporates all of these things
in one place. So the
amount of things you need
to know in order to
make a game or a
complete experience, it's massive. There,
there are so many things
you need to learn when
it comes to, you know,
visuals when it comes to
audio, when it comes to
design, when it comes to
even, you know, all the
business stuff with marketing and
all of that. And the
way I've navigated games is
usually through the lens of
an indie developer. So that
means making an entire game
on your own. So that
means I have to learn
all of these separate things
and, and, and I think
many people sort of narrow
down their scope to, you
know, either do programming or
tech and then they just
do that or I do
art and then I just
do that. And then there
aren't a whole lot of
people, I think, who spread
themselves wider across the whole
spectrum of things you can
learn. So I think one
thing that's happened is that
given that I've sort of
spread myself across all of
these different, you know, aspects
of making games, I sort
of have a view of
what, what would a game
version of a math animation
be? So then it's not
just about showing what signing
co-sign is, that's what textbooks
do, right. They have this,
you know, the shape of
the curves and then they
kind of leave it at
that, but you know, what
happened to art direction? You
know, where did that department
go? What I'm doing, marketing,
how do we present this
in an interesting way? How
do we make sure that,
you know, this is engaging
and I think that's something
that's strongly lacking in, you
know, textbook math. So I
feel like I approach these
things as if they were
like an interactive video game
experience. So right now you're
using primarily Twitter for your
kind of like letting us
know it's the fire hose
of all the things that,
that, that fray is working
on. But I want to
like stop the gifts and
I want to seek forward
and I want to go
forward and backwards. I want
to interact with these. I
want them to be a
video game, but then when
I see what my kids
are learning, it's just like,
they'll have an iPad. And
I'm like, Oh, we're learning
math on an iPad. And
the teacher gave them a
PDF. So there's this gap,
you know, either like your
gifts are read only, and
I can't interact with them
or play with them. And
then my children are on
an iPad or a tablet.
And it's just a PDF
which serves no purpose at
all. We're definitely not playing
math games right now and
really playing with this information.
Yeah. I think the, there
are a lot of like
interactive math things out there
as well. So usually they're
web based. Mine are not,
which is why I haven't
really done interactive stuff. But
I think in my case,
I think I stuck to
Twitter because that was probably
my biggest platform. And I
got most traction there and
I have the biggest reach
and there's no interaction on
Twitter in terms of like
interacting with, you know, graphics.
So, so I kind of
just like stuck to making
animations, but I've also found
that I feel like interaction
is a tool like any
other, right. And you don't
have to use interaction. And
if I, if I can
get a concept across, without
interaction, that's better than having
people have to interact with
that thing. So I feel
like just being able to
scroll through Twitter and leisurely,
look at something and learn
something is, that's a good
thing I think, but if
they would have to pull
some handle, then that requires
more time and attention from
them. But yeah, A good
point. So how are you
making these? Are you, are
these unity little unity projects?
Do you just like, Oh,
I just had an idea
for an animation file, new
project unity, or is this
in your engine? So this
is an unity. I do,
I do a scary amount
of things in unity that
I shouldn't do in unity,
but here we are. So
I kind of started out,
let's see, where did I
start out? I think I
started off making a recorder,
basically a way to capture
footage inside of unity and
then export that as some
sort of animation or an
animated GIF or a video.
So that's where I started.
And then as that one
became more and more sophisticated,
I noticed that I added
a feature that's sometimes called
motion blur or the temporal
super sampling where I capture
frames between frames so that
I get proper interpolation between
frames, making it look way
more smoother than you would
be just capturing single frames.
And that also made it
what's called rendered offline, which
means that you let your
computer take all the time.
It needs to render a
single frame of animation. And
then you move on to
the next frame instead of
live recording, which means that
your computer is going to
run the game and then
try to keep up with
recording, which generally never works
consistently. So what happened was
that the automations turned out
really smooth and they look
kind of pretty just for
being like a simple, you
know, camera animation or whatever.
From there, I, I kind
of, I started to get
interested in making some sort
of like math automation. I
don't remember which one was
the first one could have
been assigned co-sign thing. So,
so I started out thinking,
you know, OK, how, how
do you make shapes? Like
how do I make it
line in unity? How do
I make a circle? And
I didn't really have a
good way to do that
using the built in tool.
So I started writing my
own and I was also
like, at the same time,
I was getting really interested
in something called signed to
distance fields, which I don't
know if I should get,
go into details about what
that is, but a little
bit. Well, I, I started
learning how scientists this feels
or work and how you
can use those to make
two dimensional shapes in a
very nice way. And from
that, it kind of grew
at, you know, especially as
that tweet exploded, I kept
working on the BI vector
rendering library and, you know,
it grew into something that
is pretty sophisticated at this
point. Yeah. So that's kind
of the, the route that
I took and, and, you
know, combining the, the recorder
tool that I made and
the vector animations, making these
animations, make them look like
they have, you know, twice
the frame rates, even though
they're all 50 FPS, but
given that they have this
motion blur or interpolation between
frames, it looks super smooth,
which is kind of a
trick to make it look
better than it quote unquote
actually is. But yeah, That
is really interesting because I'm
like, for example, I'm looking
at your animation and I'll
put all of this in
the show notes, which is
a, the area of a
circle one where you have
a circle and it unfolds
kind of, it's kind of,
I keep staring at it
because a circle turns into
a triangle and you keep
watching it and you go,
Oh, is that how it
works? Like, I kind of
see what's going on here,
but it is preternaturally smooth.
And I just assumed you
were using Camtasia, but you're
right. Like forcing the computer
to put all these frames
on the, on the screen,
in a frame buffer, and
then capture that. It just
seems silly. You should just
generate them directly directly, which
would explain why they are
so smooth. You don't drop
a frame. Yeah. I mean,
I do. When I make
them, I usually have a
slider that I can pull.
So while I'm making them,
I can interactively, you know,
scrub the time of that
one to, you know, figure
out how it looks at
a given point in time.
So, so what does a
render in real time without
the motion blur, but as
soon as I want to
have that motion blur, it
takes like, you know, depending
on how, you know, how
good of a quality I
want, it can take like
a minute or two to
render a single one. Right.
Is that motion blurs? Something
that just humans want to
see? Like, it looks weird
without it, or does it
add information? It adds a
lot. So, so generally when,
if you look at like
a 60 frames per second
animation, the, the problem is
that you get incorrect information
between the frames, right? So,
so, so you have a
dot, so you have a
dot that is moving left
and right. And you're looking
at this animation at 60
frames per second. You're when
it goes from one frame
to another, it renders that
dot for a one divided
by 60 seconds. And then
it skips to the next
frame where the.is in a
different place. Right. But what
we're trying to emulate is
that that dot moved from
one position to another, but
frame by frame, it's actually
teleporting. Oh yeah. I guess
it would, it, depending on
all kinds of things, as
far as DPI and PPI
of the screen, et cetera,
et cetera. Oh yeah, yeah.
But, but presuming is it
presuming it's moving quickly, then
you will likely have a
large gap between those. So
w what happens is that
you, for, you know, one
divided by 60 seconds, you
will look at incorrect data
most of the time, because
it will be stuck for
that amount of time until
you hit the next frame.
Right. So if you compare
an animation that has motion
blur, and one that doesn't
the, one of the motion
blur obviously looks much, much,
much better, and it looks
so much smoother because then
you're not like you don't
have that incorrect data anymore.
Yeah. I don't know if
you worked a lot with
VR and some of the
techniques they've used there to
help prevent this. I haven't
done it, but I do
have three different VR headsets
here in the house. And
I'm looking at an HTC
vibe pro right near on
my desk here. So I
have familiarity as a user.
Oh, gotcha. Okay. So, so
there's a, there's a similar
technique you can do too.
So, so in my case,
like blending between frames, using
motion player, that is kind
of like I'm interrelating between
those frames and I'm averaging,
you know, all the data
between those two States. And
that gives you a much
more smoother and much more
realistic view of what it
would like if you saw
it in reality, right? There's
a neat little trick. You
can do VR actually, where,
or actually outside of VR
too. So the problem is,
again, that you're showing incorrect
data, but instead of interrelating
it, you could just not
show data. And that's something
you can do in VR,
for instance, to, to make
it look smoother than it
actually renders because in VR,
your head movements and everything
is really important to have
tight because otherwise you're going
to get nauseous. So what
they do is that they
show the frame and then
they turn it off before
showing the next frame. So
they just turn off the
display, it's completely black. And
then they show the next
frame for a very, very
short amount of time. And
then to turn it off
again. And just by doing
that, it looks much smoother,
but just kind of an
interesting, yeah, it's a super
interesting way that your brain
sort of fills in the
gaps there. You're saying that
they would rather show you
nothing and your brain would
rather see nothing than see
wrong information. Yes. It looks
much better. There's you can
actually do this without VR,
too. I do have an
animation on that. Heck I
forgot where I put it,
but I can probably dig
it up at some point.
I could pick it up
now To dig it up
later and put it on
Twitter and people will, who
are listening to the show
will have a reason to
go and follow you on
Twitter. Yeah. Alright. It is
on Twitter somewhere. Very deep.
We'll go looking for it.
Oh, wait. I found it.
There we go. Impressive. You
can put it in the
chat right now. That's the
motion blur versus not. So
the left one does not
have motion blur the right
one does. Wow. Okay. So
what's interesting. I'm looking at
this and I'm going to
put this in the show
notes to you as well,
who are listening on the
show will be able to
see this as well. The
one on the right feels
very consistently blurry and natural.
One on the left feels
very, I don't know if
the word is jitter, but
my, my brain is seeing
almost like there's another white
dot. It's like, there's more
dots as this dot moves
through the sign waves. It's
different each time, because I
feel like I'm running at
one sink and it's running
at another sink. And my
brain is trying to figure
out like, are we at
what frame rate are we
at? And we're fighting. My
brain is fighting with itself.
Just to try to see
that. Yeah, that's very effective.
Hey folks, I'm taking this
episode advertise for other podcasts.
If you enjoy stories about
the people behind the technology
that we use, you should
check out the greater than
code podcast. They focus on
the human side of software
development with stories of diversity
and inclusion, accessibility from people
that you don't normally hear
from search for greater than
code in your favorite podcast
app, or check out greater
than code.com. I also found
the other one, sorry. So,
so that one is not
the one that turns off
the pixels between that one
is just the, the motion
blur and the interpolation. And
that's the one that I
used in my render. And
we, this is the one,
this is the technique they
use in VR, but in
this case, it's outside of
VR. So, so this is
an example of using a
very low frame rate. I
think this is like 12
FPS, right? And the lower
one is also 12 FPS,
but the motions that like
the lower one looks so,
so, so much smoother, right?
Yeah. So it's, it is
blinking cause you're doing it
on purpose. It's strobing effectively.
Cause you're trying to make
the point, but if you
ignore the strobing, it doesn't,
it, it feels very consistent.
It has a heartbeat to
it while the standard one
is just teleporting, as you
said before. Exactly. So, so
what happens is that you,
that the trade off is
that your display, the net
effect is that it's going
to look darker when you
have this low persistence. Interesting.
I know that when you
watch, when you watch 3d
shows, they're flipping things back
and forth 3d movies. It
has less luminance because they
only have half as much
brightness going into one eye
as they flip 3d back
and forth. Oh yeah, exactly.
Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Okay. So
this is interesting because now
you're kind of combining neuroscience
and how the brain works
with how the computer is,
is, are, is, are limited
in displaying pixels. And you're
combining all of that with
math. That's a lot of
stuff that one needs to
understand in order to be
effective in this, in this
world. We're asking a lot
of young people to start
to start out. Yeah. It's
you certainly don't need to
explore all the stuff that
I've done. That's mostly because
I've been very curious to
do that in game development.
And because I liked being
able to do all the
things on my own for
some reason, which is not
super great, but I enjoy
it. So, but yeah, it's,
it's kind of come from,
you know, I, I work
at a neat corporation where
we're making VR games and
we, yeah. Like making VR
games is very challenging in
many ways. And one of
them is that, you know,
learning about headsets, learning about
motion sickness, learning about vestibular
mismatch and all that stuff
they need to read about.
It's a lot, but it's
really interesting, I think, to,
to learn about how all
of that works. So yeah.
Vestibular mismatch, it's that your
eyes say one thing and
your ears say another thing
and you don't know why
you just know you don't
feel good. Exactly. How do
you put that into math?
Like, I mean, like we
know that that's a thing,
like it's, it's basically like
car sickness or seasickness and
that's one, it's why I
can only do 15, 20
minutes of VR and I
just need to take a
break and almost like, just
breeze. How can you solve
that? If you're all sitting
around at the neat corporation
going yeah. That's a thing
here's some ass. Yeah. Kind
of. Yeah. So, so what
the, so what happens is
that you see something happen,
right? Like you say, you
are sitting in a car
and you're reading a book.
That's like a common case
for a motion sickness or
looking at a smartphone. That's
a more modern take, I
suppose. Anyways. So, so let's
say you're in a car,
you're looking down at something
and you don't see the
outside at all. Like your,
the windows are outside of
your peripheral view. So what's
happening is that you are
seeing a mostly static world.
The car is not moving
relative to you for the
most part. And then the
world outside is moving a
lot. Right? There's a lot
happening. So people get motion
sick there, because then there
is that mismatch, right? You
see one thing, but he
feels something else. And then
people can, can get motion
sick from that. The motion
sickness you get in VR
is sort of the opposite
of that. It's reverse car
sickness, sort of where you,
you see a world that
is moving. If you're moving
a character or something is
happening with a camera in
game, but you don't feel
that at all. So it's,
it's the same, it's the
type of mismatch, but it's
reverse in terms of which
one is moving, right? So,
so the whole, so when
you need to solve is
how do you move the
player without costing vestibular mismatch,
which is a difficult problem.
So, you know, in most
games you have some character,
they can move around or
you look around or, you
know, run around a level
or whatever. That's really difficult
in VR, if you don't
want to get people sick.
So it turns out the,
the biggest problem is that
the biggest problem is acceleration
and expected. Acceleration. You don't
really sense linear movements. So
you can sense if you're
changing your direction or changing
your speed or velocity, but
you don't detect just having
a constant motion that will
generally not get you motion
sick. So say you're standing
on a train. That's just
moving forward linearly. Then that
generally doesn't get you motion
sick. Cause then there's no
mismatch. The mismatch is only
in terms of acceleration of
forces, right? That's why it's
more comfortable to be on
a plane that's cruising. And
you can read your book,
but when it starts to
bank or make a big
turn, you just like, Whoa.
Oh exactly. Yeah. Interesting. So
figuring out how to, how
to counteract that there are
there, there are now a
mathematical ways to understand those
things Or the mathematical ones.
I think it's more about
physics, you know, like figuring
out, well, what is, what
is movements? What is acceleration
and how do we make
that not happen? Right? So
if you, if the only
thing you can do is
linear movement, then you need
to incorporate that into your
game. So, okay. Let's say
we cannot move forward with
a character continuously or something
where we could teleport. Right.
We could just, you know,
instantly go from one place
to another and there's no
acceleration involved there. It's just
an instantaneous moment that happens.
So that doesn't cause motion
sickness. So, so then were
like, okay, so now we
have some tool we can
use to move throughout the
world. Right? This is when
I'm like, I've done Skyrim
in VR and it's just
awful. You're your head bobbing.
You're walking around. There's, there's
half a dozen different things
that are making you nauseous.
But then if you switch
telephone, Oh, it's really it's
horrendous. And then, but then
the teleport model that was
kind of like discovered in
VR is the, you, you,
you throw a parabola out
in front of you and
you say, I want to
be over there and you
go, and then suddenly you're
there, you've teleported. This, this
reminds me of some documents
that I read about early
filmmaking when they were trying
to figure out whether or
not a, a sharp edit
or a sharp cut would
confuse the viewer. Like, should
everything be in a continuous
cut, like our lives, right?
There's no cuts when I
live or, or if you
have, here's a person on
the screen. And then I
cut and now there's a
person over here with the
brain and be like, what
just happened? And apparently we're
really good at that. We're
totally okay with lots and
lots of fast cuts. And
we absorbed those things really
quickly. Yeah. Which is kind
of weird. Right? You wouldn't
expect the human brain to
be fine with that. Cause
it never happens in nature.
Yeah. I would expect the
human brain to be totally
fine with head bobbing while
walking around in Skyrim. And
I would, I would assume
intuitively or counter-intuitively that the
more realist, the more walking
in a game was like
walking the better. And in
fact, the less it's like
walking the better isn't it?
Yeah, exactly. Interesting. One thing
I wanted to ask you
that was on my list
and it would be a
good way to close is
that one of your, one
of my favorite animations of
yours is the area of
a circle. One that we
mentioned a little bit, where
you have the circle, you
look at the radius, you
look at the circumference and
then you unfold it and
you show the relationship between
the area of the circle
and the area of a,
of a triangle. You, you
use something that's towel the,
the Greek letter towel. And
I have not seen that
before. I'm used to saying
PI times the radius squared,
but you have to bow.
And a lot of people
were also confused by that.
Was that, is that an
American versus European math? Like
how you're taught or what's
the deal with Tao? I
wish it was as popular
as that. So this could
be like an entire podcast
on its own. Really the
podcast about Tao. Yeah. There's
a, there spend sort of
a little movement to replace
pie with a different Constance.
Not really replace, I suppose,
but when, when it comes
to angles to use a
different constants instead. So if
you measure angles, quite often,
you, you're probably used to
measuring, using degrees, right? You
have zero degrees, 90 degrees
for right angle. And when
he did raise and then
three 60 for a full
turn, right, right. Scientifically and
quite often in programming. And
you know, whenever you're doing
tech and mathematically, usually you
don't really use degrees anymore.
There's a, another unit called
radiance and the radiance unit
for angle has a different
relationship for, you know, what
is a full turn? So
a full turn in radians
is the number of times
your radius of any circle
repeats around the circumference. So
turn silent. That number is
6.2 something, something right. So,
okay. So now we have
this new way of measuring
angles that goes from zero
to six points, something. So
if you have this relationship
or if you use this
angle, there's a really clean
way to convert, you know,
to get our callings from
angle and vice versa. There
are many, many relationships that
work out really well if
you use radiants instead of
degrees. So, so, okay. So,
so what is that number?
What is that 6.2 something?
Well, you're probably familiar with
the constant PI. So PI
is the ratio of the
circumference and the diameter of
a circle. So here we
run into this weird situation
where we have defined our
circle constant to be, you
know, using the diameter as
base, but our angle unit
radiants are using the radius
as the base. So what
happens is that if you
want a full turn, that
constant six point whatever is
equal to two PI. So
now we have this weird
situation where we have a
two there that is kind
of ugly, right? You want
a full turn to not
have a constant of two
cause then you get, get
run into all sorts of
problems of like, okay, how
much is a quarter turn
is like, Oh, let's see,
is it hold on, is
it half PI? Is it
1.5? You know, you get
these conversion issues in your
head. So you have this
really weird units. So then
this turns up in so
many places in math where
you have two PI just
scattered throughout almost every equation
out there related to angles.
And then, you know, you
kind of run into this,
you know, why, why do
we use this? You know,
why do we define two
pious being a full turn?
Why not have a single
constant to represent a full
turn? Right. Well, and you
keep saying full turn, full
turn as a lay person
or as a more lay
person. I'm thinking to myself
pie is like the thing
I associate with circles, but
it's really half a circle.
Exactly. It's it's half a
turn when measuring in radiants
A second. So you said
6.2, something, something, well, PI
is 3.1415926. That is TA.
So this is 6.283. That,
that at da. Exactly. So,
so tile is exactly equal
to two PI. So then
you can take all of
these two pies, outerwear equations
and just right. Tile. And
the, the nice thing about
using tile is that if
you want the quarter of
a turn, well, that's a
quarter, a times town, if
you want half a turn,
that's, you know, half times
town, you get this very,
very intuitive way of, you
know, thinking about angles using
town. Whoa, she is something
I think math, well, I
don't know. You're teaching it
on Twitch and that's, what's
exciting. I am teaching it
on Twitch and yeah, I
also do it on Twitter
I suppose, but mostly on
Twitch and aggregate, I suppose.
Cause I, yeah, given my
life streaming and whatnot, there's,
there's quite often people who
come into the stream and
they're like, Oh, how much
math do I need to
know to make games? And
then I usually talk for
a bit too long about
that. Well, in fact, speaking
of you speaking for a
bit too long, you did
a really great math for
game development live course. You
just kind of pulled it
out of thin air and
then ended up being about
four hours. It's on your
YouTube. We'll put an include
a link for it. You
call it an improvised live
course. You also have a
Patrion and folks can find
you at twitch.tv/  a
C E G I K
M O. I'll make sure
again, links to all the
show notes. We're going to
have a lot of great
links on this show. You're
doing a ton of stuff.
And are you hoping to
put all this together into
one medium? So there's one
link that we can go
to to learn more about
the work that you're doing.
I hope I do that
one day. I don't know
when I'm going to do
that. As for my math
stuff, I have considered writing
a, like an online book
about math. I think that
one would incorporate a lot
of the, you know, the
useful math animations that I
do because I do a
lot of math animations that
are just arts. But, but
yeah, so I have this
idea of, you know, kind
of re-imagining a textbook and
sort of thinking about, okay,
what, what would a modern
textbook for math be? And
how can you make this
practical instead of being, you
know, technical and covering all
the topics like a week,
a PDF page. Right? So
yeah, I've been really excited
to try to do that
and try to, you know,
make something that feels more
modern and interesting. That would
be cool. Well, for now,
I'm going to enjoy your
Twitch and your Twitter and
look forward to this theoretical
future, a math book. I
really appreciate you chatting with
me today. Yeah. Thank you
so much for having me.
We've been talking to Freya
holler. You can check her
out at the show notes
and at ACE gizmo on
Twitch, this has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.
.